# CS61A
Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs - Summer 2016

An introduction to programming and computer science focused on abstraction techniques as means to manage program complexity. Techniques include procedural abstraction; control abstraction using recursion, higher-order functions, generators, and streams; data abstraction using interfaces, objects, classes, and generic operators; and language abstraction using interpreters and macros. The course exposes students to programming paradigms, including functional, object-oriented, and declarative approaches. It includes an introduction to asymptotic analysis of algorithms. There are several significant programming projects.

The CS 61 series is an introduction to computer science, with particular emphasis on software and on machines from a programmer's point of view. This first course concentrates mostly on the idea of abstraction, allowing the programmer to think in terms appropriate to the problem rather than in low-level operations dictated by the computer hardware. The next course, CS 61B, will deal with the more advanced engineering aspects of software, such as constructing and analyzing large programs. Finally, CS 61C concentrates on machines and how they carry out the programs you write.

In CS 61A, we are taught about programming, but not about how to use one particular programming language. We consider a series of techniques for controlling program complexity, such as functional programming, data abstraction, and object-oriented programming. Mastery of a particular programming language is a very useful side effect of studying these general techniques as well as learning the essence of programming.
